## Scenario

You are a security analyst working for a social media organization. The organization recently experienced a major data breach, which compromised the safety of their customers’ personal information, such as names and addresses. Your organization wants to implement strong network hardening practices that can be performed consistently to prevent attacks and breaches in the future. 

After inspecting the organization’s network, you discover four major vulnerabilities. The four vulnerabilities are as follows:

1. The organization’s employees' share passwords.
2. The admin password for the database is set to the default.
3. The firewalls do not have rules in place to filter traffic coming in and out of the network.
4. Multifactor authentication (MFA) is not used. 

If no action is taken to address these vulnerabilities, the organization is at risk of experiencing another data breach or other attacks in the future. 

In this activity, you will write a security risk assessment to analyze the incident and explain what methods can be used to further secure the network.

## Security Risk Assessment Report

Part 1: Select up to three hardening tools and methods to implement
- Password Policies
- Multifactor authentication (MFA_)
- Port filtering

Part 2: Explain your recommendations
1. **Implementing Password Policies**: During our inspection, we discovered that employees in the organization share passwords, and the admin password for the database is still set to its default. This poses a significant vulnerability, as attackers could easily obtain login credentials. This makes it difficult for the cybersecurity team to track which user accessed certain information. Implementing strong password policies can mitigate this risk.
2. **Enforcing Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)**: We also recommend the implementation of Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). MFA can protect against brute force attacks and provides an additional layer of security for logging into the organization’s systems.
